have you ever wanted to take a dive into
the deepest parts of the ocean
well today you're gonna have this
opportunity now
how good are you at holding your breath
not that good
well not to worry hop aboard my
submersible craft
and join me in the voyage to the depths
ready
let's dive right now just below the
surface
you see that life is thriving here fish
and marine animals abound and
hey there swimmers are waving at us but
we won't be staying here for long
bye-bye
at 65 feet there's a whole new world
opening before your eyes
shallow coral reefs are standing
beautifully not far from the shore
and hey there are people here again it's
scuba divers this time though
water pressure isn't kind to divers
without special equipment
130 feet is the depths where we say
goodbye
even to recreational scuba divers it's
the maximum allowed for them
take care guys 200 feet and here's the
first
orca these whales inhabit the relatively
shallow waters of almost
every sea and ocean in the world did you
know that they're the apex predators by
the way
it means they have no natural enemies
and no one can take them down
at 230 feet we meet whale sharks the
largest known fish species
weighing up to 60 tons and they're also
quite long livers
well yeah i guess their livers are long
at that but actually it's about their
life expectancy
they can live about 130 years
now look outside if you're a scuba diver
it's a real pro
because at 330 feet they'll have to be
very cautious
not to get decompression sickness it
occurs if you rise too
quickly to the surface and if you're
lucky you can also see
a giant pacific octopus it dwells in
cool water starting this deep
and going down as far as 6 600 feet
and now we're entering the dark part of
the ocean
at 490 feet just one percent of the
light from the surface reaches us
all the rest is absorbed by water
everything that's deeper
will get darker and darker still oh look
at about 660 feet there's a giant oar
fish
circling our submersible these creatures
are believed to be the source of all sea
serpent sightings
and also a lot of alliteration sometimes
they swim up to the surface
and freak out sailors and swimmers no
wonder
these fish can reach 36 feet in length
enough to scare the heck out of me for
example
okay now we're at 980 feet
and wait what's that huge and gangling
thing out there
oh i get it it's a japanese spider crab
why a spider you ask well just look at
those legs and the answer will come to
you without further prompts
by the way there's almost nothing more
to them than legs
the body of such a crab is normally just
one and a half feet across
going deeper now and at 1 640 feet
you're going to see the last of the blue
whales no not really the last of them
i mean that's the deepest they can swim
they don't really need to dive that deep
for food
which they have in abundance in
shallower waters but they still can
i guess it's just for the sake of
showing how awesome they are
after all they're the largest creatures
in the history of earth
both in the sea and on land shh
you hear this these are the sounds fin
whales are making to talk to their
friends many miles away
they can do this thanks to the sofar
channel or deep sea channel
that generally starts at 1970 feet
but can vary in depth it's a layer of
water where the speed of sound is at its
minimum
and sound waves can go thousands of
miles before disappearing
at the depth of 2723 feet
we have reached the point where the burj
khalifa the tallest building in the
world
would not even show its tip on the
surface if it were put under water
hey let's try that now we're entering
the really
interesting part of the ocean where no
sunlight reaches us
and strange creatures dwell one of those
is the giant squid yes that legendary
type
it inhabits the depths of 2950 feet
just imagine the creature with eyes the
size of frisbees
sperm whales hunt down these beasts but
they certainly can fight back
what a sight it would be to see such an
encounter
and that's where pitch darkness finally
falls on us
the midnight zone the pressure here is
so
huge that if you somehow end up being
here without a submersible
well you'll simply be crushed in a
couple of seconds
and that without seeing a thing too not
the best of prospects
anyway at 3600 feet there's
west mata one of the deepest ocean
volcanoes in the world
its last eruption was in 2009 and it was
even filmed by a remotely operated
vehicle
four thousand two hundred feet down
below and we see the ferocious great
white sharks
these ultimate predators feel great at
such a depth
their eyesight is rather poor and they
navigate by scent
so they really don't need sunlight to
hunt down their prey
i don't see you but i'll still eat you
also the leatherback turtles the largest
turtles in the world
dive at the same depth i wonder if
they'd do it to tease the great whites
oh see those huge nets that's because
we're now at the depth of 4900 feet
where the catch-all fishing method is
used the nets are here to be dragged
along the ocean floor
catching everything unfortunate enough
to be caught
i'll let you decide how detrimental this
is to the ocean life here
at six thousand feet if we were in the
grand canyon
we'd be sitting at its lowest and
deepest point imagine that
all the crevasses have been thoroughly
filled with water and you'll get the
perfect picture
now if we're really careful then at the
depth of 6600 feet
we'll be able to see the black dragon
fish a nightmarish creature that dwells
in the deep and dark parts of the ocean
and trust me it's better off staying
right here it looks like something from
a horror movie
and i'd rather it never crossed my path
at 7 400 feet we'll be saying goodbye to
sperm whales
this is the deepest point they can dive
and frankly they have no real business
at such a depth
maybe they hunt the black dragon fish of
course or it hunts them
nah the difference in size is too big
sperm whales can reach 62 feet in length
which makes them the largest toothed
whales in the world
not many creatures can counter that it's
good that our submersible has a powerful
floodlight
without it we wouldn't have been able to
see the astonishing beauty of the deep
sea coral reefs
located at the depth of 9900 feet
they can be found in every ocean and
it's a pity they can't be seen without
special deep-sea diving equipment
okay going deeper still and at 12
100 feet we reach the average depth of
the world ocean
from now on the journey into the real
depths begins
the general ocean floor has been passed
so now it's time to delve
into the abyss now at 15 000
feet the monsters out of your worst
nightmares pop
up anglerfish for example will scare the
heck out of anyone
its long and crooked teeth along with a
growth on its head that lures the prey
is enough to instill fear even in the
bravest
but perhaps even more terrible is the
creature called the black swallower
it's an eel-like beast that has a very
stretchy stomach
and it can swallow prey that's twice its
size look down below and you're going to
see the deepest shipwreck
ever found ss rio grande in the south
atlantic
sunk in 1941 and went as low as 18
900 feet no wonder it was only found
55 years later and now the deepest and
darkest part of the ocean begins
we're diving into the mariana trench
officially it begins at about 19
700 feet deep it's both the least
explored
and the most fascinating area for the
scientists and adventurers alike
what lies at the bottom of it well we're
about to see
but while we're not there yet i'll show
you something else
for example here's the deepest fish ever
found
it's called a snail fish and it dwells
at 26
000 feet its body is translucent so you
can actually see
right through its skin well i must say
i'm glad we didn't turn off the lights
after all
this little guy is surprisingly cute for
a creature that can withstand such
pressure
going lower and deeper you won't see any
other kind of fish or vertebrate animal
whatsoever
the pressure is just too much for such
creatures but there are shrimps and
other invertebrates
not to mention microbes that can dwell
even in the deepest part of the ocean
and that part is the challenger deep
it's the bottom of the mariana trench
and its depth is 35 853 feet
yes we've arrived at the very bottom of
the earth
few people have been here and very
little is known about it yet
but scientists aren't going to stop and
there's hope
we'll soon find out what secrets the
depths of the ocean hold